Scrum:


Scrum is a framework which has solutions for complex adaptive problems, 
while productively and creatively delivering products of the highest possible value.

Scrum is a lightweight framework that helps people, teams and organizations 
generate value through adaptive solutions 
for complex problems. 
This Guide contains the definition of Scrum. This definition consists of Scrum’s accountabilities, 
events, artifacts, and the rules that bind them together. 

In a nutshell, Scrum requires a Scrum Master to foster an environment where:

1. Product Backlog:

A Product Owner orders the work for a complex problem into a Product Backlog.
a product backlog is a prioritized list of deliverables (such as new features) that should be implemented 
as part of a project or product development. It's a decision-making artifact that helps you estimate, refine, 
and prioritize everything you might sometime in the future want to complete


2. Sprint planning:

The Scrum Team turns a selection of the work into an Increment of value during a Sprint.


3. Sprint Backlog:

The Scrum Team and its stakeholders inspect the results and adjust for the next Sprint.
Sprint planning is an event in scrum that kicks off the sprint. 
The purpose of sprint planning is to define what can be delivered in the sprint and how that work will be achieved. ... 
The What – The product owner describes the objective(or goal) of the sprint and what backlog items contribute to that goal.

     --------Repeat-------------

4. Scrum Team:

A Scrum Team is a collection of individuals working together to deliver the requested and committed product increments. 
Within the Scrum Framework all work delivered to the customer is done by dedicated Scrum To work effectively 
it is important for a Scrum Team that everyone within the team. follows a common goal.

5. Daily Scrum

In Scrum, on each day of a sprint, the team holds a daily scrum meeting called the "daily scrum.” 
Meetings are typically held in the same location and at the same time each day. 
Ideally, a daily scrum meeting is held in the morning, as it helps set the context for the coming day's work

6. Increment

Product increment is the integration of all the completed list of Product Backlog Items where as in a Project, 
Product Increment is the integration of all the completed list of Sprint backlog items. 
With each sprint, the product increment increases in terms of delivered functionality.



7. Sprint Review

The sprint review is a Scrum event that takes place at the end of the sprint, 
just before the retrospective. 
The purpose of the review is to evaluate the latest features and to consider the plan for the product in the future.



8. Sprint Retrospective

The sprint retrospective is a recurring meeting held at the end of a sprint used to discuss 
what went well during the previous sprint cycle and what can be improved for the next sprint. 
The Agile sprint retrospective is an essential part of the Scrum framework for developing, delivering, and managing complex projects.



 




